### Modern javascript for Django developers
Courtesy of [SaaS Pegasus](https://www.saaspegasus.com/guides/modern-javascript-for-django-developers/)

#### Part 1 of 6

- Summary:<br>
Two structures of organizing frontend in a django project.
backend first and client first.
this guide will going to introduce a hybrid architecture with benefits of both worlds.

full js frameworks: react, vue, svelte
low-javascript frameworks: Alpine.js HTMX

The server first (backend first) architecture will become to complex and messy very quickly.<br>
The client first framework: frontend is separate from backend. backend is mostly django-rest-framework API into database. They use a combination of Node.js and Django to serve the app.<br>

Tradeoffs:<br>
Django's built-in support for templates, forms, other front-end goodies are out.<br>
They require much work for simple tasks.<br>

In hybrid architecture, rather than choosing between client first or server first at the project level, we choose it at page level.


#### Part 2 of 6
Modern Javascript tooling<br>

- The modern javascript toolchain:<br>
It consists of mainly three parts:
1. A package manager (allows us to import and use packages other people have built, similar to pip)
2. A compiler (also called transpiler, they take js code and make it backward compatible for old brwsers, Babel is most popular, SWC and esbuild are stepping up)
3. A bundler (often combined with compiler as one whole 'building' step. they take all the libraries and any code you've written and bundle it up. they mash it together into one or very few files, so they can be dropped in site easier.)

Bundlers commonly bundle js, but later they can be used to optimize and bundle css files as well.<br>
Webpack and Vite are the top.<br>
Babel is managed by webpack.
esbuild is managed by vite.


#### Part 3 of 6
- Part 3 has two versions: Webpack and Vite
Wepback is important for legacy projects.
Vite for almost all new projects.

(Here i started actually writing the project. the vite one.)
(Later i may add the webpack.)
(In this tutorial the bundled files will be placed in the 'static' folder and actual usable frontend files will be assets folder. exactly as opposed to the previous tutorials i went through.)

1. First we create a django project.

2. Then we'll create a folder in project root dir. This folder is where we'll do our frontend development.
we'll call it assets/ here. 
Django will only works with outputs generated by the bundler.
So it addition to assets/ folder, we'll also dump the outputs somewhere that django's static file system can find.
The default is a folder in project root, named static/.
(So i added this file to gitignore)

so here is the basic frontend flow assets -> bundle up -> static
